# Accessibility

## 1. Web Accessibility Coordinator
* Helps guide policy and purchasing decisions
* Evaluates web interfaces for accessibility
* Assists those with disabilities to access online infrastructure
* Keep pace with changing technology

## 2. Disability
* 1 in 5 people have a disability.
* There are 60 million people with disabilities in the U.S and the half are impeded using the internet

### 01. Visual Disabilities
* Blindness, low-vision, color-blindness
* 8 million have difficulty reading ordinary newsprint (even with glasses)
    * 1.8 million are completlely blind
* How is your font-size, color-contrast, font-style?

### 02. Hearing Disabilities
* Partial to total deafness
* 8 million have difficulty hearing a normal conversation
    * 1 million are completely deaf
* Do your videos include closed-captioning? Are you blaring music?

### 03. Motor Disabilities
* Inability to use a mouse or physical keyboard, slow response time, limited fine motor control
* Dexterity issues - 8 million Americans have difficulty using their arms or hands
* What happens when someone tries to "tab" through your page? Do you require a steady hand?

### 04. Cognitive Disabilities
* Learning disabilities, distractibility, dyslexia, inability to remember or focus on large amounts of information
* Adults with ADD/ADHD: 16 million
* 38% of soldiers, 31% of Marines and 49% of National Guard members returning from combat report psychological conditions such as TBI and PTSD
* Cognitive disabilities number greater than physical and perceptual disabilities combined

### 05. More Stats
*  8.3% of the US population have 2 or more disabilities
* 40,000 people in the US are both deaf and blind
* 41 percent of adults 65 and older have a disability
* 8.7 million people with disabilities are poor
* 70% of disabled are unemployed or underemployed

## 3. Legal
DOJ is in the process of revising Title II and III of the ADA to include online resources of state and local entities.
* Case law-individuals or entities can file civil rights complaints
    * e.g. Penn State, NYU, Northwestern, FSU, Target, Southwest Airlines, Priceline.com, Ramada, Kindle, etc.

## 4. Web Accessibility
* Making the web accessible for the *widest possible audience*
* This audience includes Temporarily Able-Bodied users (TABs)
* Currenntly, online infrastructure is *hostile* to those with disabilities
* Inseparable from SEO, mobile, and usability: improve one and you improve the others
* <font color="orange"><em>Best way to accomplish accessibility is adherence to standards.</em></font>

## 5. W3C WCAG 2.0
* W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines are principle-, not technology-based
* The four principles (POUR):
    * Perceivable
    * Operable
    * Understandable
    * Robust

## Review
* Designing with accessibility in mind is the right thing to do for many reasons
* Adhering to standards (not flashy, cool effects) is key
* Pay special attention to the semantics behind the HTML5 tags