# The Evolution of HTML

## 1. HTML?

### 01. What is HTML?
* HTML stands for <font color="orange">Hypertext Markup Language</font>
* Markup languages are not the same as programming languages, they use <font color="orange">tags</font> to annote documents.
* In HTML, the tags indicate where headings, images, lists, links, line breaks, and other components should go.

### 02. .html files
* When your computer opens a .html file, it knows to open it in an Internet browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, etc.)
* The browser can read this file and know how to display it on the screen.
* Screen readers and other assistive device can also utilize the HTML tags to present the information in special ways. 

### 03. HTML Files
* HTML is similar to English, so you can understand it even if you don't know much about it. (<font color="orange">[sample.html](../codes/sample.html)</font>)

### 04. "Learning" HTML
* In the beginning you worry about <font color="orange">syntax</font>
    * What tags are there?
    * Did I remember to "end" my tag?
* Later, you will worry about <font color="orange">semantics</font>
    * Is there a tag that better conveys the meaning I am trying to get across?
    * If someone is searching my page, can they find what they need and access it easily?


## 2. History
### 01. Early Years
* HTML (I) was created in 1990 as a way to electronically connect documents via hyperlinks (hence a "web" of connections)
> It is required that HTML be a common language between all platforms. This implies no device-specific markup, or anything which requires control over fonts or colors, for example. 

### 02. Mosaic
* In 1993, Mosaic emerged as the first graphical browser.
> "Images caused a lot of angst among the early web community because we just went and decided this was a cool thing and decided to put them in... We're humans. That's more interesting to look at than a page of text." - Jon Mittelhauser
* WWW proliferates at a 341,634% annual growth rate of service traffic.
* Mosaic had challengers though in the form of Netscape (1994), Internet Explorer (1995) and others. 

### 03. The Browser Wars
* Browsers had proprietary tags
    * `<marquee>...</marquee>` (scrolling text)
    * `<blink>...</blink>` (blinking text)
* Other tags that went against the spirit of the original tenets of HTML were added
    * e.g. `<font>`, `<center>`, and `<bgcolor>`
* Compatibility issue
    * Origination of "Best viewed on" messages.

### 04. Web Standards
* No one "runs" the Internet or the Web, some groups do take proactive roles:
    * Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
    * World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
    * The Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)

### 05. Evolution of Browsers
|||
|-|-|
1990-1994| HTML was simple, content was primarily text-based
1993| Mosaic enters the scene with images and ... BOOM!!!
1995-1999| Cross-browser compatibility falls apart
2000-2005| Browsers move toward separating content from style
2005-2008| Using HTML files in coordination with CSS becomes new standard.

### 06. Evolution of HTML
|||
|-|-|
1993| HTML 1.0 - Developed by Tim Berners-Lee to link document 
1995| HTML 2.0 - Developed by Internet Engineering Task Force RFC to include stylized text and tables
1996| css 1
1997| HTML 3.2 - Developed by W3C and included browser specific features
1997| HTML 4.0 - A move back to normalizing the pages across platforms.
1998| css 2
1999| HTML 4.01 - Introduced different document types
2012| HTML 5 - Back to HTML plus multimedia and semantic tags

### 07. Where We are Now
* HTML5 is a cooperation between W3C and the Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group (WHATWG)
* Established Guidelines
    * New features should be based on HTML, CSS, the DOM, and JavaScript
    * Reduce the need for external plugins (e.g. Flash)
    * More markup to replace scripting
    * HTML5 should be device independent